well let's talk about this now to Rana
Zer who's a clinical nutritionist and is
joining us live from Dar albala in
central Gaza Brana thank you so much for
being with us on alaz as we've been
reporting thousands of Palestinian
children have been diagnosed with
malnutrition according to the World
Health Organization 32 of them have died
from it so far can you tell us what is
driving this sharp escalation in
malnutrition cases in Gaza
good morning first of all uh and uh um
it's my pleasure to be here about the
children under to under two years there
are a lot of reasons to have a
starvation and Mal nutrition they feel
thirsty and contaminated water also uh
there is no food security and uh there
is no humanitarian AIDS uh a lot of uh
diarrhea 900 90% of these
childrens suffered from diarrhea and
from H um HEPA hepatitis and other uh
diseases so uh they have uh no food
insecurity and they have unprocessed all
this uh food contaminated and processed
food H it's uh when we give a choice at
the uh children how to take a viset vbl
or eggs both of these are not found
still now and they yeah yeah so food
insecurity you say and also a lack of of
diet diversity are some of the factors
that are driving this increase in uh in
malnutrition cases can you tell us ra
what an average child in Gaza today
under the age of five eats what sort of
food does he or she have access
to it's 8 5% of these of all numbers of
these childrens under than five suffered
from uh food insecurity and starvation
so if we give H for example it's not
about kids only under five years also it
it destroy their health their po also
they uh they suffering from
contamination hepatitis dermatitis and
uh uh low uh low
weight uh also uh they are not good to
uh grow enough uh in these times it's
now the ninth H not the ninth month of
uh War it's the first and uh the the the
largest starvation manmade so uh we are
supporting our kids by teaching them
also all the time how to take care of
theirselves and of their
help what are going to be the long-term
consequences of this on on children uh
you talked about you know the effect
it's having now and we've seen the
pictures of of emaciated children in
Gaza what impact could this have on
their health in the
future okay in the future if we have a
children of if we have a future if we
already have uh more time to live this
incredable War here in Gaza Strip
destroyed everything destroyed uh the
children destroyed pregnant woman and
destroyed the new Fe the new uh new
porns to start breastfeeding woman
destroy all our publicity here so uh in
the future if we live again uh it will
be day uh with L long and uh wasting
their body wasting their uh
Contra the the ability to sell aive and
the Salvation will affect their vitamins
minerals uh humanitarian AIDS uh we
don't support we we ask all the world to
support Gaza Strip and to uh uh stop
blocked SI air strike and uh other
humanitarian aids to uh stop this
starvation also as UNICEF this is uh all
every one of three Childs in in Gaza
Strip suffering from starvation so it's
it's a huge number of uh man-made
station which like Israel use it as a
weapon of the world R thank you so much
for taking the time to speak to us about
the situation in Gaza and uh the the
food insecurity there R zater is a
clinical nutritionist joining us there
from Dar Bala in central Gaza thank you
very much for your time